PREVIOUSLY ON "ENTERPRISE"...
WE DON'T HAVE A COMPLETE
CASUALTY LIST YET.
BUT SO FAR, THE NEWS ISN'T GOOD.
FIVE PEOPLE ARE CONFIRMED DEAD,
DOZENS WOUNDED.
IF YOU DESTROY EARTH,
ELIMINATING MY SPECIES,
YOU WON'T JUST BE
YOU'LL BE ELIMINATING YOUR OWN.
WHY THEY RELEASED YOU?
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA
I THINK I MAY HAVE GOTTEN
THROUGH TO ONE OF THEM.
DEGRA.
ATTEMPTED TO BUILD A BIO-WEAPON.
WE WERE TOLD THE REPTILIANS
WHO TOLD YOU THIS?
WERE BUILDING THIS BIO-WEAPON
WE'VE ALSO LEARNED THAT THEY
IN THE PAST ON EARTH.
UGH!
WHEN I WAS EXPOSED TO TRELLIUM,
IT AFFECTED ME IN A WAY
I WASN'T PREPARED FOR.
TO ACCESS CERTAIN EMOTIONS.
I DISCOVERED I WAS ABLE
I WANTED MORE.
I DEVISED A WAY TO INJECT IT
INTO MY BLOODSTREAM.
YOU MUST HAVE KNOWN
IT WAS DANGEROUS.
IS DEADLY TO VULCANS.
TRELLIUM EXPOSURE
ELIZABETH! GET OUT OF THERE!
[ GASPS ]
[ SIGHS ]
WE'RE IN BAD SHAPE.
I CAN'T DENY THAT.
BUT WE'RE STILL
IN ONE PIECE.
ENTERPRISE IS A TOUGH SHIP.
SHE TOOK MORE THAN ANYONE COULD
ASK HER TO, AND THEN SOME.
AND SO HAVE ALL OF YOU.
I WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU.
THE 18 CREWMEN WHO WERE LOST.
I ONLY WISH I COULD THANK
HOW IMPORTANT OUR MISSION IS,
LIKE YOU, THEY UNDERSTOOD
AND THEY ACCEPTED THE RISKS.
NOT KNOWING WHAT WE'D FIND,
WE CAME INTO THE EXPANSE
WITH NO ONE TO RELY ON
BUT OURSELVES.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO SUCCEED,
TO ACCOMPLISH OUR MISSION,
FOR EVERYONE ON EARTH
WHO'S RELYING ON US...
AND FOR THE 18.
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
SECTIONS 6 AND 7 ON "C" DECK.
WE MANAGED TO GET INTO
WE FOUND TAYLOR AND KAMATA.
THAT ACCOUNTS FOR EVERYONE.
WHAT'S OUR STATUS ON WEAPONS?
MR. REED HAS BOTH FORWARD
PHASE CANNONS BACK ONLINE
THE AFT TORPEDO LAUNCHERS.
IN ADDITION TO
HULL PLATING IS UP TO 80%.
THAT'LL HAVE TO DO.
WE COULD WAIT,
A CHANCE TO MAKE MORE REPAIRS.
HANG BACK UNTIL WE'VE HAD
DEGRA'S MESSAGE WAS CLEAR.
WE'RE TO MEET HIM
10 HOURS FROM NOW.
AND I DON'T INTEND TO BE LATE.
MAYBE THAT'S WHAT
HE'S COUNTING ON.
WE'RE STILL LICKING OUR WOUNDS.
LURE US INTO AN AMBUSH WHILE
I'VE MADE MY DECISION.
WE HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO DO.
I SUGGEST WE GET TO IT.
AYE, SIR.
COMMANDER.
CREWMAN TAYLOR WAS ONE OF YOURS,
WASN'T SHE?
CONTROL SPECIALIST.
SHE WAS AN E.P.S.
DAMN GOOD ONE.
A LETTER TO HER FAMILY.
I'D LIKE YOU TO WRITE
UH...
SHE WORKED ON ROSTOV'S TEAM.
I CAN ASK HIM.
I ASKED YOU.
I'M BARELY HOLDING
THE SHIP TOGETHER.
I DON'T HAVE TIME TO SIT DOWN
AND WRITE A LETTER.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE LONG.
HER FAMILY DESERVES TO KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED TO HER.
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE BUSY. I'LL COME BACK.
AH, AH, AH. HAVE A SEAT.
I'LL HAVE TO USE
A HAND SCANNER.
THE IMAGING CHAMBER
IS STILL OFFLINE.
COMMANDER TUCKER REASSIGNED
THAT WAS WORKING HERE.
THE REPAIR TEAM
WAS A HIGHER PRIORITY.
HE SAID THE ARMORY
WE'LL SEE HOW LOW
A PRIORITY I AM
FINGERS ON A PLASMA CONDUIT.
THE NEXT TIME HE BURNS HIS
AH.
NO FURTHER WITHDRAWAL SYMPTOMS?
AH. YOU'VE EXPERIENCED
NONE.
I'M ONLY DETECTING TRACE AMOUNTS
OF TRELLIUM IN YOUR SYSTEM.
HARDLY WORTH MENTIONING.
THAT'S GOOD NEWS.
WHAT IS IT?
THESE EMOTIONS...
HAVE GROWN MORE DIFFICULT
TO CONTROL.
MY USUAL TECHNIQUES
FOR SUPPRESSING THEM
HAVEN'T BEEN EFFECTIVE.
ON EARTH, THERE'S A CAUTIONARY
TALE ABOUT THE DANGERS
OF RELEASING A MAGICAL CREATURE
CALLED A GENIE FROM A BOTTLE.
ONCE IT'S OUT, IT'S EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT TO PUT BACK IN.
ARE YOU SAYING THESE EMOTIONS
MAY NEVER SUBSIDE?
YOU USED TRELLIUM
FOR THREE MONTHS.
IT CAUSED SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE
TO YOUR NEURAL PATHWAYS.
TO LIVE WITH THESE EMOTIONS.
YOU MAY HAVE TO LEARN
THE COORDINATES, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE APPROACHING
RIGHT ON SCHEDULE.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
NO SHIPS OUT THERE, SIR.
HOSHI?
SCANNING ALL FREQUENCIES.
NOTHING SO FAR.
MAYBE THEY'RE RUNNING LATE.
[ RUMBLING ]
TACTICAL ALERT!
IT'S A SPATIAL ANOMALY.
WE'VE ENTERED A DENSE FIELD.
[ WHOOSHING ]
UGH! TUCKER TO THE BRIDGE.
the best time for this!
This is not
STAND BY, TRIP.
REPORTS OF INJURIES ON "B" DECK.
NO ONE'S OUT THERE, SIR.
GET US OUT OF HERE.
AYE, SIR.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
CAPTAIN.
WE'RE RECEIVING A TRANSMISSION.
IT'S DEGRA.
HE'S TELLING US
TO FOLLOW HIM.
STAY WITH HIM, TRAVIS.
AYE, SIR.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
THEY'RE HAILING US.
I SEE YOU FOUND MY MESSAGE.
WE HAVE A GREAT DEAL
TO DISCUSS,
AND I DON'T HAVE MUCH TIME.
COME ABOARD MY SHIP.
WITH THE REPTILIANS,
IF WE'D LEFT YOU
THEY WOULD HAVE KILLED YOU.
DEGRA ARRANGED FOR THE AQUATICS
TO RETURN YOU TO YOUR SHIP.
THE ATTACK ON ENTERPRISE?
THEN YOU ALSO CALLED OFF
THE REPTILIANS WEREN'T VERY
PLEASED ABOUT THAT, EITHER.
YOU'VE TAKEN A BIG RISK.
IF YOU'RE TELLING THE TRUTH,
THE FUTURE OF MY PEOPLE
IS AT STAKE.
TOLD YOU IS TRUE.
EVERYTHING I'VE
WILL NEED MORE THAN YOUR WORD.
FORGIVE ME, BUT THE COUNCIL
PERHAPS YOU CAN DEMONSTRATE
YOUR ABILITY TO TIME TRAVEL.
THAT MIGHT BE A BIT...DIFFICULT.
BUT IF YOU COME ABOARD MY SHIP,
ALL THE PROOF YOU WANT.
I CAN GIVE YOU
VERY WELL.
BUT THERE ARE SOME THINGS
I WANT TO KNOW FIRST.
SUCH AS?
WHEN WILL YOUR WEAPON
BE LAUNCHED?
THE PRECISE DATE HASN'T BEEN
DETERMINED YET.
WEEKS? DAYS?
THAT'S UP TO THE COUNCIL.
BUT I NEED TO KNOW MY WORLD
I'M TRYING TO HELP YOU,
ISN'T BEING DESTROYED
WHILE I'M DOING IT.
THE WEAPON WON'T BE LAUNCHED
FOR SEVERAL DAYS.
SHOW US YOUR PROOF,
WHAT WE CAN TO STOP IT.
AND WE'LL DO
WHAT DID YOU GET?
PEPPERONI PIZZA.
HMM.
PICK THE PEPPERONI OFF.
DON'T WORRY, YOU CAN
DAMAGE REPORTS?
NO.
THE CAPTAIN WANTS ME
TO WRITE A LETTER
TO CREWMAN TAYLOR'S FAMILY.
I'M SURE THEY'LL
APPRECIATE THAT.
THEIR DAUGHTER'S DEAD.
DO YOU REALLY THINK THEY'LL CARE
WHAT I HAVE TO SAY?
[ SIGHS ]
WHEN'S THE LAST TIME YOU SLEPT?
NOT SINCE THE ATTACK.
I DON'T KNOW.
THAT WAS TWO DAYS AGO.
ALL RIGHT, THEN, TWO DAYS.
GO TO YOUR QUARTERS.
GET SOME SLEEP.
BELIEVE ME, I'D LOVE TO.
I COULD ORDER YOU.
I DON'T HAVE TIME.
WE'RE FULL OF HOLES,
THE ONLY THING KEEPING US FLYING
IS A STOLEN WARP COIL,
AND NOW I'VE GOT TO
WRITE THIS LETTER.
[ RUMBLING ]
WHAT THE HELL?
FIRE!
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
[ GROANING ]
TUCKER TO ENGINEERING!
THE AUXILIARY COOLANT LINES
SHUT DOWN
BETWEEN SECTIONS, UH,
12 AND 14 ON "E" DECK!
Aye, sir.
TUCKER TO SICK BAY.
ON "E" DECK, SECTION 12.
MEDICAL EMERGENCY
On my way, Commander.
REACTOR PRESSURE'S HOLDING.
I WASN'T TAKING A NAP.
GOOD THING
[ SIGHS ]
DAMRON.
FRIEND OF YOURS?
A COLLEAGUE...OF SORTS.
THEY'RE THE ONES WE FOUND
ON EARTH IN THE PAST.
AND THIS IS THE RESULT
OF YOUR FINDING THEM?
THEY WERE ABOUT TO RELEASE
A BIO-WEAPON
DECIMATED THE POPULATION.
THAT WOULD HAVE
REPTILIANS FELT A TOXIN WOULD BE
MORE EFFECTIVE ON YOUR SPECIES.
DAMRON AND HIS TEAM
DISAPPEARED
SHORTLY AFTER THE COUNCIL
REJECTED HIS PROPOSAL.
APPARENTLY THEY DECIDED
TO GO AHEAD
WITHOUT YOUR COUNCIL'S APPROVAL.
YOU WERE ABLE TO STOP THEM
BUT FORTUNATELY,
BACK THROUGH TIME.
BY TRAVELING
I ALREADY TOLD YOU, WE HAD HELP,
JUST LIKE THEY DID.
THIS PROVES NOTHING.
HOW DO WE KNOW HE DIDN'T CAPTURE
THEM IN THE PRESENT?
YOU NEED MORE EVIDENCE.
THEY HAD THIS WITH THEM.
WE DESTROYED THE TOXIN,
A SAMPLE OF IT IN STASIS.
BUT MY DOCTOR KEPT
THIS APPEARS TO BE
XINDI TECHNOLOGY.
OUR ENGINEERS CONFIRM IT.
BUT I'D LIKE TO HAVE
HAVE THEM COME ABOARD, PERFORM
WHATEVER TEST THEY'D LIKE.
THIS PROVES NOTHING
EXCEPT THE REPTILIANS
DISOBEYED THE COUNCIL,
AS NO GREAT SURPRISE.
WHICH COMES
THAT WE'VE BEEN MISLED
BUT YOU ALSO CLAIM
BY TRANS-DIMENSIONAL ALIENS.
WHERE IS YOUR EVIDENCE OF THAT?
COME WITH ME.
THERE'S A MICROFRACTURE
IN THE MAGNESIUM JACKET.
THAT'S WHY IT RUPTURED.
I RAN A PRESSURE TEST.
TELL IT TO THE MAN
LYING IN SICK BAY!
TEST THEM AGAIN, ALL OF THEM!
AYE, SIR.
COMMANDER?
I'M A LITTLE BUSY, DOC.
SO IT SEEMS.
I UNDERSTAND YOU HAVEN'T SLEPT
SINCE THE ATTACK.
T'POL TATTLING ON ME NOW?
WELL, SHE'S WORRIED ABOUT YOU.
WELL, I APPRECIATE THAT,
BUT I'M TRYING
TO HOLD THIS SHIP TOGETHER
WITH SPIT AND BALING WIRE.
THAT WE'LL BE FAR WORSE OFF
HAS IT OCCURRED TO YOU
IF YOU COLLAPSE
FROM EXHAUSTION?
YOUR CONCERN IS DULY NOTED, DOC,
BUT I GOT TO GET BACK TO WORK.
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
COME AGAIN?
I'M RELIEVING YOU OF DUTY.
YOU WILL GO TO YOUR QUARTERS
AND NOT RETURN TO YOUR POST
BEFORE 0500 TOMORROW.
SIX HOURS?!
PLEASE DON'T MAKE ME
INVOLVE SECURITY.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
Archer to Dr. Phlox.
YES, CAPTAIN.
I need you in sick bay.
I'LL BE RIGHT THERE.
WELL, COMMANDER?
I CAN GIVE YOU TWO HOURS.
I BELIEVE THE NUMBER WAS SIX.
IF I'M GONE LONGER THAN THREE,
THERE MAY NOT BE A SHIP HERE
WHEN I GET BACK.
FOUR, NOT A MINUTE LESS.
DONE.
AND REMIND ME TO NEVER BUY
A CAR FROM YOU.
CAPTAIN'S WAITING FOR YOU.
I'M AWARE OF THAT.
WELL, GOOD NIGHT, THEN.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
WE FOUND HIM ADRIFT.
DO YOU RECOGNIZE HIS SPECIES?
WE'VE MET ONE OF THEM.
WHAT CAUSED HIS DEATH?
CELLULAR DEGENERATION.
SOME KIND OF
HE WAS TAKEN OFF HIS SHIP.
IT STARTED THE MOMENT
PERHAPS YOUR ATMOSPHERE
WAS TOXIC TO HIM.
I BELIEVE OUR UNIVERSE
HIS SPECIES EVOLVED
IN A DIFFERENT DIMENSION.
UNDER A DIFFERENT SET
OF PHYSICAL LAWS.
HE SIMPLY COULDN'T EXIST HERE.
THAT'S WHY HIS SPECIES
BUILT THE SPHERES --
MORE COMPATIBLE FOR THEMSELVES.
TO MAKE OUR SPACE
WE BELIEVE HE WAS A TEST SUBJECT
IF THEY WERE SUCCEEDING.
SENT HERE TO SEE
YOU'RE SAYING THE EXPANSE
AND IF THEY ARE,
WILL NO LONGER BE
COMPATIBLE FOR US.
OR ANY OF US.
AN ALLIANCE TO STOP THEM.
WE'RE DESTINED TO FORM
BUT IF YOU DESTROY EARTH,
THAT'LL NEVER HAPPEN.
YOUR OWN RACE TO EXTINCTION.
YOU'LL BE CONDEMNING
[ SIGHS ]
TROUBLE SLEEPING, SIR?
TAYLOR.
YOU WERE KILLED.
THIS WHOLE SECTION DECOMPRESSED.
A SEALED COMPARTMENT?
DID YOU FIND
NO.
THEN HOW...
YOU'RE DEAD.
AND I'M DREAMING.
THE LETTER -- HOW'S IT GOING?
"I REGRET TO INFORM YOU."
I GOT AS FAR AS...
THAT'S A LITTLE DRY, SIR.
YOU'RE NOT REAL.
TO CALL ME "SIR."
YOU DON'T HAVE
SO, WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
THE LETTER DOESN'T HAVE
TO BE LONG.
THE CAPTAIN TOLD YOU THAT.
YOU CAN'T THINK OF ANYTHING.
I WISH IT WAS THAT SIMPLE.
I SERVED ON ENTERPRISE
FOR THREE YEARS.
YOU PULLED ME OFF THE SARATOGA
TO BE ON YOUR TEAM.
PRETTY ANGRY AT YOU.
CAPTAIN BRODY WAS
I FORGOT ABOUT THAT.
A FINE CHIEF ENGINEER SOMEDAY.
YOU TOLD ME I'D MAKE
YOU WILL.
YOU WOULD HAVE.
THEN TELL MY PARENTS THAT.
JOKES ROSTOV USED TO PLAY ON ME,
TELL THEM ABOUT THE PRACTICAL
GLITCH IN THE INJECTOR ASSEMBLY
OR THAT ONE TIME I FOUND THE
THAT EVERYONE ELSE MISSED.
TELL THEM HOW HARD I WORKED.
HOW MUCH YOU LIKED ME.
TELL THEM
WHY CAN'T YOU LOOK AT ME?
JUST...REMEMBER ME.
IS THAT ASKING SO MUCH?
YES.
WHY?
[ SIGHS ]
THESE TESTS ONLY CONFIRM
THE EQUIPMENT BELONGED
TO THE REPTILIANS.
CHRONOMETRIC DISTORTION --
THERE'S ALSO EVIDENCE OF
TIME TRAVEL.
HAVE BEEN FABRICATED.
THE READINGS COULD
YOU'RE DETERMINED
NOT TO TRUST HIM.
NO MORE THAN YOU SEEM
TO BE DETERMINED
TO BELIEVE WHATEVER HE SAYS.
EVIDENCE IS INTRIGUING,
NOW, I ADMIT ARCHER'S
BUT WE BARELY KNOW THIS HUMAN.
OUR CONTACT FROM THE FUTURE
HAS HELPED US MANY TIMES.
SHE BROUGHT THIS COUNCIL
TOGETHER.
AND YOU'VE NEVER WONDERED
WHETHER SHE MIGHT HAVE
AN AGENDA OF HER OWN?
I AM NOT A FOOL, DEGRA.
IT'LL TAKE A LITTLE MORE
ALL I'M SAYING IS THAT
CHRONOMETRIC DISTORTIONS
THAN A FEW
TO TURN THE COUNCIL AGAINST HER.
CAPTAIN ARCHER IS EXPECTING ME.
MORE EVIDENCE?
HE CLAIMS TO KNOW A GREAT DEAL
ABOUT THE SPHERES.
DEGRA.
ABOUT BUILDING THE WEAPON.
I KNOW YOU'VE HAD DOUBTS
CLOUD YOUR JUDGMENT.
DON'T LET THEM
TO RECONSTRUCT OUR DATABASE.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING
GAVE US DIDN'T HELP MUCH.
THE POUNDING YOUR SHIPS
TRY IT NOW.
THE OPTICAL SUBPROCESSORS.
I'M GONNA RESET
THAT MIGHT CLEAR IT UP.
WHEN WE SLIPPED THROUGH
YOUR DETECTION GRID,
WE GOT A LOOK AT THE WEAPON
YOU'RE BUILDING.
AN IMPRESSIVE PIECE
OF ENGINEERING.
HELL, IT WOULD TAKE AT LEAST...
A THOUSAND STARSHIPS
LIKE ENTERPRISE
TO BLOW UP AN ENTIRE PLANET.
YOU KNOW, I'D LIKE TO SEE
THE TELEMETRY
YOU LAUNCHED AGAINST EARTH.
FROM THE PROBE
INCREASE THE DATA RESOLUTION.
[ SIGHS ]
WATCHING THE ATTACK,
I ASSUME YOU WERE
CALCULATING THE BLAST YIELDS.
BOY, YOU MUST HAVE BEEN
PRETTY DAMN EXCITED.
I MEAN, THAT BEAM CUT ONE HELL
OF A SWATH THROUGH FLORIDA.
THAT'S THE NAME OF ONE OF
THE PLACES YOU DESTROYED.
FLORIDA.
COMMANDER.
SEE THE CITIES BURNING,
DID YOU ACTUALLY
THE PEOPLE BEING VAPORIZED?
THE HOUSES,
I HAD A SISTER THERE.
COMMANDER!
HOW ARE THE REPAIRS COMING?
JUST NEED A FEW MORE MINUTES,
CAPTAIN.
WHY DON'T YOU JOIN ME
IN MY READY ROOM
UNTIL THEY'RE FINISHED?
LET'S STICK TO THE JOB AT HAND.
AYE, SIR.
THE CAPTAIN IS TRYING
TO GAIN DEGRA'S TRUST.
OF THE WARP PLASMA CONDUITS.
IT'S ONE
WHEN OUR SENSORS WERE OFFLINE.
IT MUST HAVE RUPTURED
PERHAPS MY CREW CAN HELP.
WE'LL HANDLE IT.
WE'LL NEED TO SHUT DOWN
THE MAIN PLASMA FEEDS.
THE FLOW REGULATORS ARE DAMAGED.
CUTOFFS HERE AND HERE,
THERE ARE MANUAL
BUT WE CAN ONLY ACCESS IT
FROM OUTSIDE.
THAT'S VERY CLOSE TO THE FIRE.
WE DON'T HAVE A CHOICE.
IF WE DON'T GET CONTROL
OF IT FAST, IT'LL SPREAD
TO THE REACTOR.
-I COULD USE A HAND.
-GET GOING.
THAT'D BE ME, SIR.
OPEN THAT PANEL,
THROUGH THE CUTOFF SEQUENCE.
AND I'LL TALK YOU
WHERE'S THE OTHER VALVE?
OVER THERE.
[ WHIRRING ]
I NEED TO OPEN THE EMERGENCY
BYPASS PORTS FIRST.
YOU CAN'T CLOSE YOUR VALVE
UNTIL I RELEASE THE PRESSURE
FROM THE SECONDARY LINES.
Commander! I have a problem.
I THINK THE HEAT'S
WARPED THE METAL.
THE PANEL WON'T OPEN.
I'LL BE THERE IN A MINUTE.
USE YOUR PLASMA TORCH.
I'M RELEASING THE INTERLOCKS
ON THE FIRST PORT.
THIS IS GONNA TAKE A WHILE.
Careful you don't cut through
the bypass relays, Malcolm.
THE MANIFOLD PRESSURE
IS INCREASING.
WE HAVE LESS THAN SIX MINUTES
BEFORE THE FIRE REACHES
THE REACTOR SHIELDING.
ARCHER TO TRIP.
than six minutes.
You've got less
UNDERSTOOD.
UGH!
YOU OKAY, MALCOLM?
I'M ALMOST THERE.
IN LIEUTENANT REED'S SUIT
CAPTAIN, THE TEMPERATURE
IS OVER 44 DEGREES.
HE'S TOO CLOSE TO THE FIRE.
CAN'T COMPENSATE.
HIS E.V. SUIT
GET BACK TO THE AIRLOCK.
MALCOLM,
[ SIGHS ]
I'M ALMOST FINISHED, CAPTAIN.
That's an order.
GET INSIDE, MALCOLM.
I CAN WRAP IT UP.
THE PRIMARY BYPASS PORT.
I'M OPENING
AND WE'RE IN BUSINESS.
TWO MORE TO GO
46 DEGREES.
MALCOLM.
YOU'RE BREAKING UP.
I'M SORRY, SIR.
GET INSIDE, MALCOLM.
I CAN FINISH.
THERE'S NO TIME!
SO I CAN SHUT THIS DOWN.
DO WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO
I'M PURGING THE LAST PORT.
A FEW MORE SECONDS.
THE FORWARD VALVE IS CLOSED.
CLOCKWISE 90 DEGREES.
OKAY, MALCOLM,
NICE WORK, MALCOLM.
MALCOLM?
MALCOLM.
MEET US IN THE AIRLOCK.
TUCKER TO DR. PHLOX.
HIS BODY TEMPERATURE DOWN.
WE NEED TO BRING
LET'S GET HIM TO SICK BAY.
I HOPE HE'LL BE ALL RIGHT.
WHAT'S ONE MORE DEAD HUMAN
TO YOU?
TRIP.
KILLING 7 MILLION OF US,
HE HAD NO PROBLEM
MORE THAN YOU CAN STOMACH?
BUT 7 MILLION AND ONE IS
THAT'S ENOUGH.
I GUESS EVEN XINDI
HAVE THEIR LIMITS.
I SAID THAT'S ENOUGH!
AYE, SIR.
THERE ARE 59 OF THEM.
WE'VE DETERMINED
78, AT OUR LAST COUNT.
78?
TO STUDY THEM THAN YOU HAVE.
WE'VE HAD MORE TIME
I APOLOGIZE FOR MR. TUCKER.
I NEVER EXPECTED TO MEET ANYONE
BECAUSE OF WHAT I'D DONE.
WHO'D SUFFERED
AT THE TIME,
NECESSARY TO SAVE MY PEOPLE.
I THOUGHT THE ATTACK WAS
I KNOW.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, WE'VE HAD
THIS CONVERSATION BEFORE.
THAT'S RIGHT.
FROM PRISON TOGETHER.
OUR ESCAPE
THE REPTILIANS ARE CORRECT
ABOUT ONE THING, CAPTAIN.
YOU HAVE AN IMPRESSIVE FACILITY
FOR DECEPTION.
ERASING YOUR MEMORY
PROBABLY WASN'T THE BEST WAY
TO EARN YOUR TRUST.
PROBABLY NOT.
BY A SUBSPACE ENERGY GRID.
THEY ARE ALL CONNECTED
ON THE SPHERES' INTERIORS
UNFORTUNATELY, OUR DATA
IS EXTREMELY LIMITED.
MAYBE I CAN HELP.
HOW DID YOU GET THIS?
WE CAME ACROSS WAS DAMAGED.
THE FIRST SPHERE
IN THE OUTER SHELL.
THERE WAS A BREACH
ABLE TO GAIN ACCESS TO ONE.
WE'VE NEVER BEEN
DETAILED FOR A MILITARY VESSEL.
THESE SCANS ARE REMARKABLY
TO BE A SHIP OF EXPLORATION.
ENTERPRISE WAS DESIGNED
IF WE'RE SUCCESSFUL,
IT WILL BE AGAIN.
COMPUTER, BEGIN RECORDING.
DEAR MR. AND MRS. TAYLOR,
I REGRET TO INFORM YOU
THAT YOUR DAUGHTER WAS KILLED
IN THE LINE OF DUTY.
SHE WAS A FINE ENGINEER,
PERFORMING HER DUTIES.
AND SHE DIED
COMPUTER, STOP RECORDING.
DELETE THAT.
[ SIGHS ]
COMPUTER, START AGAIN.
DEAR MR. AND MRS. TAYLOR,
AS JANE'S COMMANDING OFFICER,
IT'S WITH DEEPEST REGRET THAT
I INFORM YOU OF HER DEATH.
SHE WAS A DILIGENT ENGINEER,
VERY HARD-WORKING --
All hands to stations.
Tactical alert.
REPORT.
WE'VE DETECTED A SHIP.
THROUGH THE CLOAKING BARRIER.
THEY'VE JUST PASSED
ON SCREEN.
REPTILIANS.
DID YOU INVITE ANYONE ELSE?
WE MASKED OUR WARP TRAIL.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THEY FOUND US.
WHERE IS DEGRA?
IN SENSITIVE NEGOTIATIONS.
HE'S INVOLVED
WITH THE HUMANS?
AUTHORIZED THESE NEGOTIATIONS.
I SUPPOSE THE COUNCIL
THE DEVELOPMENT OF A BIO-WEAPON,
NO ONE AUTHORIZED
COLLEAGUES FROM CREATING ONE.
BUT THAT DIDN'T DETER YOUR
THE HUMAN VESSEL IMMEDIATELY.
UNDOCK FROM
HE INTENDS TO SEIZE
THE HUMAN VESSEL.
HE'LL DESTROY BOTH OUR SHIPS
IF WE DON'T COMPLY.
-STAND BY.
-DEGRA!
I SAID STAND BY!
A CHANCE AGAINST THEM,
WE DON'T STAND
NOT IN THE SHAPE WE'RE IN.
WHAT KIND OF WEAPONS
DO YOU HAVE?
YOU EXPECT ME TO ATTACK
A REPTILIAN WARSHIP?
IF WE WORK TOGETHER, WE MIGHT
BE ABLE TO DISABLE THEM.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
THEY'RE CHARGING WEAPONS.
THE DESIGN OF THAT SHIP?
ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH
ON THEIR POWER SYSTEMS.
I DID SOME WORK
THEN YOU KNOW WHERE
THEY'RE VULNERABLE,
WHERE TO TARGET OUR WEAPONS.
THEIR SHIP IS HEAVILY ARMORED.
AT LEAST WE'D STAND A CHANCE.
THOSE REPTILIANS ARE XINDI.
YOU'RE ASKING ME TO ATTACK
MY OWN PEOPLE.
STARBOARD DOCKING PORT.
PROCEED TO OUR
I WANT YOUR WORD THAT MY CREW
WON'T BE PUNISHED.
YOU'LL ALL BE DEALT WITH
AS THE COUNCIL SEES FIT.
REACHED THE REPTILIANS.
HE'S NEARLY
THEIR SHIELD GENERATORS.
HE'S KNOCKED OUT
FIRE.
EVASIVE MANEUVERS.
KEEP FIRING.
TARGET THEIR WEAPONS.
THEIR WEAPONS ARE DOWN.
KNEW EXACTLY WHERE TO HIT THEM.
DEGRA WAS SPOT-ON,
OPEN A CHANNEL TO DEGRA.
SIR, HE'S CHARGING WEAPONS!
HAS BEEN DESTROYED.
THE REPTILIAN SHIP
CAPTAIN, DEGRA'S HAILING US.
THEY WOULD HAVE CONTACTED
THE COUNCIL
AND EXPOSED OUR ALLIANCE.
I HAD NO CHOICE.
CREWMAN ROSTOV SAID
I'D FIND YOU HERE.
STARTING TOMORROW.
REPAIR CREWS ARE
AND GET THEM SOME POWER.
I THOUGHT I'D TRY
THESE ASSEMBLIES ARE
ALL FUSED TOGETHER.
I'VE SPENT THE LAST HOUR TRYING
TO ISOLATE THE DAMAGED RELAYS.
YOU MIGHT FIND THIS USEFUL.
PORTABLE POWER CELLS.
NEW XINDI FRIENDS?
COURTESY OF OUR
DAMN NEIGHBORLY OF THEM.
I CAN HELP YOU WITH?
IS THERE ANYTHING
RESURRECT THE DEAD.
NOT UNLESS YOU CAN
CREWMAN TAYLOR HAD A REAL KNACK
FOR THIS KIND OF THING.
BUT TAYLOR'S NOT HERE, IS SHE?
AND NEITHER IS CREWMAN KAMATA
OR ENSIGN MARCEL
OR A DOZEN OTHERS,
SO FORGIVE ME IF I DON'T WANT
THE DAMN POWER CELLS!
WE FOUND TAYLOR OVER THERE,
OUTSIDE HER QUARTERS.
SHE WAS PROBABLY TRYING
TO GET TO HER STATION.
A FEW MORE METERS,
IF SHE'D MADE IT
I WOULDN'T BE TRYING TO WRITE
THIS DAMN LETTER,
'CAUSE EVERY TIME I START,
I HEAR MYSELF SAYING
YOUNG WOMAN SHE WAS,
WHAT A FINE
AND FULL OF POTENTIAL.
HOW -- HOW SMART
AND I REALIZE I'M NOT THINKING
ABOUT TAYLOR AT ALL.
I'M THINKING ABOUT ELIZABETH.
THERE'S SO MANY PEOPLE DEAD.
I TRIED NOT TO SEE HER
ANY DIFFERENTLY
THAN THE OTHER 7 MILLION.
THE LAST NINE MONTHS
SO I'VE SPENT
SHE WAS JUST ANOTHER VICTIM.
TRYING TO PRETEND
BUT SHE'S MY SISTER, T'POL.
MY BABY SISTER.
[ SOBBING ]
I ENVY YOU VULCANS.
THE LOSS OF A COLLEAGUE
YOU THINK THAT
DOESN'T AFFECT US?
OR A FRIEND
IT DOES.
BUT IF WE GIVE IN
TO THOSE EMOTIONS,
THEY OVERWHELM US.
YOU'RE THE ONES TO BE ENVIED.
YOU NEED TO SPEAK
TO THE COUNCIL.
WITH THE EVIDENCE
YOU'VE SHOWN ME,
BUT TO TAKE US SERIOUSLY.
THEY'LL HAVE NO CHOICE
EVEN THE REPTILIANS?
ABOUT THE AQUATICS.
I'M MORE CONCERNED
THEY CAN BE SOMEWHAT ENIGMATIC.
BUT IF WE CAN SWAY THEM, WE'LL
HAVE A MAJORITY ON OUR SIDE.
THESE ARE THE COORDINATES
OF THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
A DOZEN LIGHT-YEARS AWAY.
THIS IS NEARLY
WEEKS TO GET THERE.
IT'LL TAKE US
THERE'S A SHORTER ROUTE,
A SUBSPACE CORRIDOR.
IT'S LOCATED IN A NEBULA
LESS THAN HALF A LIGHT-YEAR
FROM HERE.
THAT WILL SHOW YOUR HELMSMAN
HOW TO GET THROUGH IT.
AT THE FAR END IN THREE DAYS.
I'LL MEET YOU
WILL IT BE SOON ENOUGH
TO STOP THE WEAPON?
I'LL DO EVERYTHING
I CAN TO DELAY IT.
WHEN YOU ENTER THE NEBULA.
USE CAUTION
PREY ON SHIPS THAT APPROACH IT.
A HOSTILE SPECIES IS KNOWN TO
THANKS FOR THE WARNING.
SEE YOU IN THREE DAYS.
THREE DAYS.
COMPUTER, BEGIN RECORDING.
MR. AND MRS. TAYLOR,
BY THE TIME YOU GET THIS,
STARFLEET WILL HAVE ALREADY
TOLD YOU ABOUT JANE.
SO CLOSELY WITH HER,
SINCE I WORKED
MY PERSONAL CONDOLENCES.
I WANTED TO ADD
I HAVE TO CONFESS,
WRITING THIS FOR A WHILE.
I'VE BEEN PUTTING OFF
I CONVINCED MYSELF THAT MY
DUTIES ON ENTERPRISE
TOOK PRECEDENCE.
BUT THE TRUTH IS...
I DIDN'T WANT TO FACE THE FACT
THAT SOMEONE SO YOUNG,
WITH SO MUCH PROMISE...
...COULD JUST BE GONE.
BUT I'M FACING IT NOW.
HOW IMPORTANT SHE WAS TO ME.
AND I FIND MYSELF THINKING
SHE WAS A GREAT ENGINEER.
AND SHE WAS MY FRIEND.
SHE WON'T BE FORGOTTEN.
GOODBYE, ELIZABETH.